Fancy scrollbars  by Robert Rayment  June 2003

 The purpose of these routines is to get away from the standard
 VB scrollbars and add other colors and effects when wanted.

 The method used is to put a VB ScrollBar on the form fixing
 final position, Max, Min & SmallChange.  LargeChange is not
 used.  Then a picture box containing 3 command buttons. The
 prog will then overlay the VB ScrollBar matching the size
 and position. 6 arrays are set up for each scrollbar for
 retrieving info from the VB ScrollBar and setting scale
 factors. The VB ScrollBars and the controls must be indexed.

 NB Form Scalemode = Pixels or Twips is assumed

 On Form put

 Form1  Horz VB ScrollBar HS(0), HS(1) etc
        Container: picHS(0), picHS(1) etc (twips)
        Controls:  Left,       Thumb,     Right
        in picHS  cmdHSLEF(0), cmdHSTUB(0), cmdHSRIT(0)
                  cmdHSLEF(1), cmdHSTUB(1), cmdHSRIT(1)
                              etc
        Output values in HSVal(0), HSVal(1) etc

 Form1  Vert VB ScrollBar VS(0), VS(1) etc
        Container: picVS(0), picVS(1) etc (twips)
        Controls:  Top,        Thumb,      Bottom
        in picVS  cmdVSTOP(0), cmdVSTUB(0), cmdVSBOT(0)
                  cmdVSTOP(1), cmdVSTUB(1), cmdVSBOT(1)
                              etc
        Output values in VSVal(0), VSVal(1) etc

 NB These same Control Names must be used.  Also even
    for one scrollbar it must have an index (ie 0).

 Things that could be added: include LargeChange &
 adjust thumb size according to range of values.

 A full user control could be made (though I'm not
 practised at that). It would enable some properties
 to be more easily set but I think not so flexible
 for the optional items used here, eg like shaping
 APIs.  There is a scrollbar OCX on PSC at CodeID =
 22788 but is more complicated than the method used
 here.

 There is a reusable Module and a set of short Subs to include
 on the Form containing the scrollbars.  Instructions are given
 on Form1.

1. MAIN EXAMPLE

 The first examples use a picture box containing 3 command buttons
 matching horizontal & vertical VB scrollbars.  The advantage of
 including the VB scrollbars is that Nax, Min & SmallChange can be
 set up at design time if wanted.  The size and position of the VB
 scrollbars determines the final position of the 'fancy' scrollbars.

 Shows icons on buttons
 Shaping the thumb
 Value on thumb
 Drawing on picbox container

2. SILLY SCROLLBARS

 Only uses horizontal scrollbars
 Shaping thumb & picbox container
 Icons on buttons

3. PIC SCROLLER

 One horizontal & one vertical scrollbar used
 to scroll a picture box

4. PIC SCROLLER 2

 As pic scroller but includes the use of the right mouse button
 to move directly to the start or end values of the scrollbars.
 ie slightly different Module & fixed Subs on Form to test for
 use of right mosue button.

5. ALTERNATIVE THUMB

 Uses a picture box instead of a command button for the scrollbar
 thumb.  Different style but main advantage is for simulating an
 up/down control instead of the faulty VB one.  No 'buddy text
 box' attempted however.  Use different name for thumb, Module & 
 fixed Subs on Form are changed.  In this case no easy way to
 use changing icons on the thumb.


 